# Final Project - Project Brainstorm

 We are Group 3 from section AH. Our members include:
 Emily Yu, William Huang, Mekides Demile, and Quynh Doan.

 ## Domain of interest

 Why are you interested in this field/domain?
 - We are interested in sports because we are basketball fans and a lot of sports were put on hold in light of health safety concerns during the COVID period, including the NBA tournaments. We were curious to investigate data of previous NBA tournaments to see if there were any crucial factors that affected their performances or profits profoundly just like the COVID-19.


 What other examples of data driven projects have you found related to this domain (share at least 3)?

 1. [This](https://digital.hbs.edu/platform-digit/submission/san-antonio-spurs-data-driven-approach-to-win-games/) is a project by the San Antonio Spurs on a data-driven approach to win basketball games. They use advanced analytics to improve team performance by analyzing the pass probability, EPV after pass, and the change in EPV on every position in the court.

 2. [This](https://www.stat.berkeley.edu/~aldous/157/Old_Projects/spurs.html) is a project on analysis of NBA draft adages. They try to measure how good a player is mainly by using two metrics, win shares and value over replacement players, and then create a value profile based on these two factors and other performance data for each player.

 3. [This](https://nycdatascience.com/blog/student-works/2020-nba-season-analysis/) is a project by a basketball fan on NBA season analysis. He tried to identify rising players and teams for the next season as well as crowning a MVP based on existing data of their performance.

What data-driven questions do you hope to answer about this domain (share at least 3)?

1. What are some of the highest-paid and lowest-paid positions in the league? We can answer this by analyzing the data on player salary, grouped by each position in the league.

2. Which players are the most popular on social media like Twitter, etc? How does this affect their pay rates, performance, etc? We can cross analyze the data on player followers on social media and their pay rates and performance data.

3. What are the chances that a particular team will win based on their previous performances? We can analyze the data on the success rate of each player and then compare the data with other teams.Success rate of player may need existing data on success pass rate, probability of successfully shooting the ball, probability of winning games, etc.

## Finding Data
In this section, you will identify and download at least 3 sources of data related to your domain of interest described above (into a folder you create called data/).

1. [Link](https://www.nba.com/stats/players/traditional/?sort=PTS&dir=-1) to the website of the data (available through a web API)
- This data is made available through a web API, so we don’t have to download it
- The data is collected and generated by the official NBA websites, including details of all games from 1996 to 2020, details of each player, and their performance data. We can also add filters to see particular categories, such as most points per game, most rebounds per game, etc.
- The data is divided into years and we need to select a particular year to view all data of that year, so there may be different numbers of rows for each game year. For example, there are 530 observations (rows) for 2018-2019 and there are 529 rows for 2019-2020.
- There are 29 features columns in the data, including player’s name, team, pts, age, gp, etc.
- The chances that a particular team will win based on their previous performances can be answered using this data set. The data set includes detailed performance data of each player that could help us come up with success rate or probability of winning games for players.

2. [This](https://www.kaggle.com/nathanlauga/nba-games) is the link to the website of the dataset which is divided into five csv files. All the downloaded files can also be viewed in the data file
([Downloaded files 1](data/games.csv),
[Downloaded files 2](data/games_details.csv),
[Downloaded files 3](data/players.csv),
[Downloaded files 4](data/ranking.csv),
[Downloaded files 5](data/teams.csv))
- We download this data set from Kaggle (csv file)
- The data is collected by Nathan Lauga and generated by nba stats websites. The dataset contains all games from 2004 to 2020. To be more specific, all the data is divided into five csv files, games.csv, games_details.csv, players.csv, ranking.csv, and teams.csv. Games file include broad information of games, such as the date and status of the games. Games_details include more detailed information of games, such as competing teams, scores for both teams, FGM, etc. Players.csv includes information of players’ participation of a particular team, games, and seasons. Ranking.csv contains information of players' performance data, so we can rank the players based on different categories. The teams.csv contains information about teams of players and some information about the teams, such as the team’s nickname and the year into championships.
- There are five csv files, so they have different numbers of rows. Games.csv has 23196 rows, games_details.csv has 576783 rows, players.csv has 7229 rows, ranking.csv has 179534 rows, and teams.csv has 31 rows.
- Games.csv has 21 columns, games_details.csv has 28 columns, players.csv has 4 columns, ranking.csv has 12 columns, and teams.csv has 14 columns.
- Again we can answer what are the chances that a particular team will win based on their previous performance as we have detailed information about each player’s performance data.

3. [This](https://www.kaggle.com/schmadam97/nba-regular-season-stats-20182019) is the link to the website of the dataset. The downloaded files can also be viewed in the data file ([Downloaded files](data/nbastats2018-2019.csv))
- We download this data set from Kaggle (csv file).
- This dataset is generated by schmadamco and collected from Basketball Reference and contains the main stats from the 2018-2019 NBA season.
- There are 521 unique rows in this data.
- There are 27 features in this dataset.
- We can answer which players are the most popular on social media like Twitter, etc? How does this affect their pay rates, performance, etc? What are some of the highest-paid and lowest-paid positions in the league. Since this dataset contains each player’s salary along with their information and individual points, blocks, (overall performance).
